(from Coderwall proptip published at [https://coderwall.com/p/bal2_a](https://coderwall.com/p/bal2_a))

Ever needed to use a PHP script for your single page application rather than the static index.html file that Yeoman provides?

It's quite possible to do so while keeping all of the goodness that Yeoman brings together for you (particularly live reloading).

The integration is accomplished via a middleware by [Felix Gnass](https://github.com/fgnass) named [gateway](https://github.com/fgnass/gateway). Gateway enables you to specify CGI handlers for requests matching certain extensions (.php in our case). Mr. Gnass wrote [a blog post](http://fgnass.github.io/2012/08/30/yeoman.html) on this protip's topic, but didn't include step-by-step instructions for the middleware integration, which took me a while to figure out.

Note: this guide assumes that you have `php-cgi` in your $PATH.

# Generate an app with Yeoman

```
$ mkdir php-from-yeoman
$ cd php-from-yeoman
$ yo webapp
```

# Ensure that php-cgi is in your $PATH

```
$ which php-cgi
```

If you get 'php-cgi not found', here's how to install it using Homebrew on OS X (for other OS's, Google is your friend):

```
brew tap homebrew/dupes
brew tap josegonzalez/homebrew-php
brew install php54
```

# Setup gateway module

```
$ npm install gateway
```

Modify the Gruntfile.js file generated by Yeoman and add the following near the top:

```javascript
var gateway = require('gateway');
```

Modify the array returned by the function at connect.livereload.options.middleware to look like this:

```javascript
middleware: function (connect) {
  return [
    lrSnippet,
    gateway(__dirname + '/app', {
      '.php': 'php-cgi'
    }),
    mountFolder(connect, '.tmp'),
    mountFolder(connect, 'app')
  ];
}
```

# Rename app/index.html and test

```
$ mv app/index.html app/index.php
```

Add `<?php echo "<h1>Hello from PHP!</h1>";` with the `body` tag of app/index.php

```
$ grunt server
```

You should see **Hello from PHP!**.

Make some changes to app/index.php, save the file, and you should see your browser automatically reload.

### Note: due a to naïve conditional in the livereload library, live reloading will only work for PHP files when the URL ends with a '/' (so basically, index.php files)
